---
layout: post
title:  "Frequently Asked Questions"
faq: true
date:   2018-02-22
image: "assets/imgs/posts/faq.jpg"
---
### Q: What kind of organization is Theta Tau?

A: Theta Tau is a professional engineering fraternity. The purpose of Theta Tau
is to develop and maintain a high standard of professional interest among its
members, and to unite them in a strong bond of fraternal fellowship. We separate
ourselves from being a social fraternity because we emphasize professionalism as
a common goal. Nonetheless, we hold many social events, such as intramural
sports, camping, and fraternity potluck dinners, all of which foster
brotherhood.

### Q: Is Theta Tau Co-Ed?

A: Yes. Theta Tau is a Co-ed National Professional Fraternity; we recruit
high-achieving men and women. Theta Tau has been Co-ed since the late 1970’s.

### Q: What are the requirements?

A: There are several requirements that must be met at the time of initiation:
Must be at least 18 years of age at the time of initiation Overall GPA 3.0 Must
be an engineering student and currently progressing onto the field.(Once you are
a member of Theta Tau, you are a member for life, even if you switch majors in
the future) Must not be an active member of a competing fraternity Must show an
active role within the College of Engineering Most importantly, must show good
character
 

### Q: Do I have to be an engineer to join Theta Tau?

A: Yes, you need to be in one of the following engineering majors at the
University of Illinois while you are a pledge:
 - Aerospace Engineering (AE)
 - Agricultural Engineering (AgE)
 - Bioengineering (BioE)
 - Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering (ChBE)
 - Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE)
 - Computer Engineering (CompE)
 - Computer Science (CS)
 - Electrical Engineering (EE)
 - Engineering Physics (EP)
 - Engineering Mechanics (EM)
 - General Engineering (GE)
 - Industrial Engineering (IE)
 - Materials and Science Engineering (MatSE)
 - Mechanical Engineering (ME)
 - Nuclear, Plasma, and Radiological Engineering (NPRE)

Once you are initiated into Theta Tau, you are a member for life even if you
switch majors.

### Q: Is Theta Tau an honor society?

A: Although we promote scholarship and require a certain GPA for initiates,
Theta Tau is not an honor society.

### Q: Why should I consider Theta Tau?

A: What makes Theta Tau great is the development of its members. The area
between social fraternity and honor society allows us to create an environment
where students can grow academically, professionally, and socially.
Professionalism is paramount, yet at the same time we don’t forget about the
fundamental, social aspect of brotherhood; we ultimately help each other become
well-rounded men and women. Theta Tau is a strong professional and social
network that will last for life.

### Q: What is “Rushing”?

A: “Rushing” is an open invitation for eligible students to learn about becoming
a member of Theta Tau. Rush is usually held during the first few weeks of the
fall and spring semesters. During this time you will see signs posted saying
“Rush Theta Tau.” Theta Tau holds Rush events where we give out pizza, go
bowling, BBQ, play sports among other activities. During this time, you first
meet the members of Theta Tau and they get to meet you. The purpose is to let
the brothers of Theta Tau know you are interested in joining. You also learn
about the fraternity and the upcoming pledge process so you can make an informed
decision about joining. During the two rush weeks, you are encouraged to come to
as many rush events as possible. You should introduce yourself to the members
and ask any questions they may have about Theta Tau. At the end of the rush
period, the members of Theta Tau choose who will receive a bid to continue on to
the pledge process.

### Q: What is a “bid” and how do I receive one?

A: A “bid” is a formal invitation to pledge a fraternity. Bids are given out to
rushees who have shown potential of being a good member of Theta Tau. To receive
a bid, come out to the rush events. Get to know the current members, as the
chances of receiving a bid increase by doing so. Immediately after the rush
events, be sure to submit the “Interview Sign-Up” form on our website. After the
interviews, the members will hold a meeting to determine which rushees may move
on to the pledging process. If the members decide to allow the rushee to
continue to the pledging process, that rushee will receive a bid.

### Q: What is “Pledging”?

A: “Pledging” Theta Tau is a continuing promise by the student to become an
active member of the fraternity. If you choose to accept an extended bid, you
will undergo the pledge process. The pledge period lasts for about 6 weeks.
During this time you learn some history about the fraternity, important Theta
Tau facts, and you bond with your fellow pledge brothers and soon to be
fraternity brothers. Each pledge session lasts about an hour. Throughout the
pledge period, different requirements are asked of the pledges. As a pledge
class you learn teamwork, professional development, and what it means to be a
member of Theta Tau.

### Q: Are there any requirements to be initiated into Theta Tau?

A: Yes, there are several requirements: Attend the weekly pledge sessions Pay
the pledge fee on time. Please see the question about fees below Complete the
pledge project. The Pledge Marshal will let you know more about it later Pass
the National and Chapter Exams Attend initiation
 
### Q: What if I cannot make it to events due to conflicts?

A: Pledges and members are highly encouraged to attend their respective meetings
and activities. However, school comes first. As we are all students, we
recognize the importance of having time to study. If a class or review conflicts
with a meeting or activity, academics have top priority.  If you know you are
going to absent, pledges should contact the Pledge Marshal; members should
contact the Scribe.

### Q: What are “big brothers”?

A: A big brother is a member of Theta Tau assigned to act as a mentor to a
pledge. Big brothers help the pledges adjust to Theta Tau and offer any advice
they may have about courses, the fraternity, among other things. The Big
Brothers / Little Brothers Program was formally installed in Fall 2009.

### Q: Are there any fees?

A: Yes, as with most student organizations on campus, there are initiation and
member fees. The initiation fee is $205 dollars, which covers your initiation
badge as well as cost of materials. This fee is paid only one time (the semester
you initiate).  The member dues are $230 per year. This fee covers cost of
materials, a T-shirt, as well as national fees.  If you are concerned about
paying the fees, contact the treasurer and a payment plan can be arranged.

### Q: What is “hazing” and will I be hazed?

A: Absolutely not. Theta Tau has a strict no-hazing policy. Our chapter defines
“hazing” as an action taken or situation created, intentionally, whether on or
off campus or fraternity premises, to produce mental or physical discomfort,
embarrassment, harassment, or ridicule. Any action taken to intentionally hurt
the individual, degrade them, or humiliate them will not be tolerated. Our
chapter believes that everyone who joins our organization is equal.

### Q: May I still join Theta Tau if I am already in another fraternity/sorority?

A: Yes, as long as the other social or honors fraternity or sorority is not a
competing fraternity with Theta Tau. The competing fraternities are:

 - Alpha Chi Sigma
 - Alpha Omega Epsilon
 - Alpha Rho Chi
 - Kappa Eta Kappa
 - Phi Sigma Rho
 - Scarab
 - Sigma Beta Epsilon
 - Sigma Phi Delta
 - Sigma Rho
 - Triangle Fraternity

### Q: How do I correctly pronounce the “Tau” in Theta Tau?

A: Good question. In your physics or math classes, “tau” probably rhymes with
“how” or “cow,” which is the correct pronunciation for the modern Greek letter.
However, in our name, “tau” rhymes with “saw” or “law,” which is the
pronunciation for the classical Greek letter.

### Q: I have more questions!

A: We have more answers! If you have any other questions, please contact the
Rush Chairman or the Pledge Marshal. Either one of them will be happy to answer
them for you.
