---
layout: post
title: FAQ
date: "2025-08-10"
image: /assets/imgs/posts/faq.jpg
---
<style>
  img {
    width: auto;
    height: auto;
  }
  .faq-list {
    list-style-type: disc;
    margin-left: 40px;
  }
  .faq-list ul {
    list-style-type: circle;
    margin-left: 20px;
  }
  .faq-list ul li {
    list-style: none; 
  }
</style>

# Theta Tau FAQ

### Q: What kind of organization is Theta Tau?

**A:** Theta Tau is a professional engineering fraternity. Our purpose is to foster a high standard of professional interest among our members and unite them in a strong bond of fraternal fellowship. Unlike social fraternities, we emphasize professionalism as a common goal. Nonetheless, we also host numerous social events (e.g. camping trips, intramural sports, happy hours) as well as collaborative events with other campus organizations (e.g. barn dance, semi formals).

### Q: Is Theta Tau Co-Ed?

**A:** Yes! Theta Tau is a co-ed national professional fraternity that recruits high-achieving engineering students of all genders. Theta Tau has been Co-ed since the late 1970s.

### Q: Why should I consider Theta Tau?

**A:** What sets Theta Tau apart is its commitment to the holistic development of its members. As a professional fraternity, we foster an environment where students can grow academically, professionally, and socially. While professionalism is at our core, we also emphasize the social aspects of brotherhood, helping each other become well-rounded individuals. Theta Tau provides a strong professional and social network that lasts a lifetime.

### Q: Is Theta Tau an honor society?

**A:** While Theta Tau promotes scholarship, we are not an honor society. Initiates are expected to be in good academic standing with the university.

### Q: What are the requirements to rush?

**A:** To be eligible to rush, you must meet the following requirements:

- Be a full-time undergraduate engineering student
- Be in good academic standing
- Not be an active member of a competing fraternity
- Be enrolled in one of the following engineering majors:
  <ul class="faq-list">
        <li>Aerospace Engineering</li>
        <li>Agricultural & Biological Engineering</li>
        <li>Bioengineering</li>
        <li>Chemical & Biomolecular Engineering</li>
        <li>Civil Engineering</li>
        <li>Computer Engineering</li>
        <li>Computer Science</li>
        <li>Computer Science + X</li>
        <li>Electrical Engineering</li>
        <li>Engineering Mechanics</li>
        <li>Engineering Undeclared</li>
        <li>Environmental Engineering</li>
        <li>Industrial Engineering</li>
        <li>Materials Science & Engineering</li>
        <li>Mechanical Engineering</li>
        <li>Neural Engineering</li>
        <li>Nuclear, Plasma, & Radiological Engineering</li>
        <li>Physics</li>
        <li>Systems Engineering and Design</li>
    </ul>

Additionally, you must have the ability to remain in the fraternity for a significant amount of time. This means that you must either be a **freshman** or a **sophomore**. Exceptions can be made for juniors graduating in more than four years.

### Q: What is rush?

**A:** Rush is an open invitation for eligible students to learn about becoming a member of Theta Tau. Held during the first few weeks of the fall and spring semesters, rush consists of a variety of events that offer a glimpse into our fraternity. These events help you determine if you are a good fit for us and if we are a good fit for you. You are encouraged to attend as many rush events as possible. At the end of the rush process, we extend a limited number of bids. Rushing is completely free of charge and has no obligations.

### Q: What is a bid, and how do you choose who receives one?

**A:** A bid is a formal invitation to start pledging a fraternity. Bids are extended to rushees who show potential to be valuable members of Theta Tau, embodying the three pillars: Brotherhood, Professionalism, and Service. We assess each applicant through a comprehensive evaluation of factors (academic standing, personality, professionalism, interview performance, etc.) to determine mutual compatibility. Attend our rush events and get to know our brothers to enhance your chances of receiving a bid!

### Q: What is pledging?

**A:** Pledging is the process by which individuals integrate into the brotherhood. It is a commitment to become an active member of the fraternity. If you accept a bid, you will undergo an 11-week process, spanning to the end of the semester. During this time, potential new members (PNMs) will be asked to complete various requirements, such as leading fundraisers and participating in 1:1 professional mentorship. Through the pledging process, you will learn more about the fraternity, develop professional skills, and bond with your PNM class and soon-to-be fraternity brothers. At the end of the process, PNMs are initiated into the organization as brothers.

### Q: Are there any requirements to be initiated into Theta Tau?

**A:** Yes, there are several requirements:

- Attend weekly PNM sessions
- Pay the membership fee on time (please see the question about fees below)
- Complete all pledging requirements
- Pass the National and Chapter Exams
- Attend initiation

### Q: Do I have to attend all recruitment events?

**A:** To be eligible for an interview, you must attend one of two information sessions and an additional event. We strongly encourage you to attend as many events as you can; this gives us the opportunity to get to know you better!

### Q: Are there any fees?

**A:** Yes. As with most student organizations on campus, there are initiation and member fees. The initiation fee is approximately $300, covering your initiation badge, operational costs, and national fees. This fee is paid only once during the semester you pledge. After you get initiated, you pay member fees to stay an active member, which are about $250 per year. If you are concerned about paying the fees, a payment plan can be arranged with the treasurer.

### Q: What is hazing, and will I be hazed?

**A:** Theta Tau has a strict no-hazing policy. Our chapter defines hazing as any action taken or situation created intentionally, whether on or off campus, to produce mental or physical discomfort, embarrassment, harassment, or ridicule. Any action taken to intentionally hurt, degrade, or humiliate an individual will not be tolerated. Our chapter believes that everyone who joins our organization is equal.

### Q: May I still join Theta Tau if I am already in another fraternity/sorority?

**A:** Yes, as long as the other social or honors fraternity or sorority is not a competing fraternity with Theta Tau. The competing fraternities are:

- Alpha Chi Sigma
- Alpha Omega Epsilon
- Alpha Rho Chi
- Kappa Eta Kappa
- Kappa Theta Pi
- Phi Sigma Rho
- Scarab
- Sigma Beta Epsilon
- Sigma Phi Delta
- Sigma Rho
- Triangle Fraternity

### Q: How do I correctly pronounce the “Tau” in Theta Tau?

**A:** Good question. In your physics or math classes, “tau” probably rhymes with “how” or “cow,” which is the correct pronunciation for the modern Greek letter. However, in our name, “tau” rhymes with “saw” or “law,” which is the pronunciation for the classical Greek letter.

### Q: Wait, I have more questions!

**A:** We have more answers! If you have any other questions, please contact the Rush Chair (Shane Bodhanwala; shanepb2@illinois.edu).
